Modify rule S2107: Expand and adjust for LaYC (#2647)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S2107/cfamily/rule.adoc

Partially-initialized objects are surprising to the `class` users
and might lead to hard-to-catch bugs.
``class``es with constructors are expected to have all members initialized after their constructor finishes.

This rule raises an issue when some members are left uninitialized after a constructor finishes.

== Why is this an issue?

In the following example, `PartInit::x` is left uninitialized after the constructor finishes.

[source,cpp]
----
struct AutomaticallyInitialized {
  int x;
  AutomaticallyInitialized() : x(0) {}
};

struct PartInit {
  AutomaticallyInitialized ai;
  int x;
  int y;
  PartInit(int n) :y(n) {
    // this->ai is initialized
    // this->y is initialized
    // Noncompliant: this->x is left uninitialized
  }
};
----

> This leads to garbage being printed in benign-looking code like this:

Reviewer: Maybe we should say, this leads to undefined behavior in following bening-looking code. In C++ this is UB.
And comment on the court. // Undefined behavior,

> This leads to garbage being printed in benign-looking code like this:

Author: rewritten

Partially-initialized objects are surprising to the `class` users
and might lead to hard-to-catch bugs.

== Why is this an issue?

In a {cpp} class,

> all member variables of a type with an implicit or explicit constructor will be automatically initialized.

Reviewer: I struggling to understand this sentence. I think we should focus on the default constructor in the first place.
However, if the class has a trivial default constructor, such a class will not be initialized. For example:
```
struct Trivial {
  int x;
  int y;
};

struct Container {
  Container() { /* no initialization of t */ }
  Trivial t;
};
````

This is not the case for the others:
if no initialization is explicitly written,

> the variable will be left uninitialized.

Reviewer: I think we should extend this section, to have code samples with classes and an explanation of which members are not initialized. This rule seems like the place where we should put this deduction.

Author: I added a few examples. Additionally, the Noncompliant code example section covers some. Do you think any cases are still missing?

Reviewer: I think that examples already cover most of the cases I can think of. Good job on that.

It is a common expectation that an object be in a fully-initialized state after its construction.
A partially initialized object breaks this assumption.

=== What is the potential impact?

This comes with all the risks associated with uninitialized variables,
and these risks propagate to all the classes using the faulty class as a type
as a base class or a data member.
This is all the more surprising
that most programmers expect a constructor to correctly initialize the members of its class

> (this is its raison d'être after all).

Reviewer: I would remove this reference to language I do not recognize. It may be only understandable to people exposed to french.

Author: It is a relatively common [English idiom](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Raison_d%27%C3%AAtre#:~:text=Raison%20d'%C3%AAtre%20%2F%CB%8Cr,or%20%22reason%20to%20be%22.), but it is certainly not part of a "simple English". removed

include::../../../shared_content/cfamily/garbage_value_impact.adoc[]

=== Exceptions

> Aggregate classes do not initialize most of their data members

Reviewer: I would mention in this section, that using `x{}` or `x()` (in class initializers) will value initialize all aggregate members.

but allow their users to use nice and flexible initialization syntax.
They will be ignored by this rule (but are the subject of S5558).

== How to fix it

To avoid partially-initialized objects,
all non `+class+`-type fields should always be initialized (in order of preference):

* With an in-class initializer
* In the initialization list of a constructor
* In the constructor body

> See S3230 for more details about this order.

Reviewer: One this rule is in related rules I am not sure if we should keep the reference.

Author: I am divided on this one. On one hand, it is duplication, to have the reference both here in the context, and in the Resources section. On another hand, here the reference is most relevant, so it helps both to put the reference in context and to explain the order mentioned here; and the reference is good to mention in the Resources section because that's the first place you would look at when searching for related rules.

It does not seem like too much duplication, though, so if you have no preference, I would leave both references in.

Reviewer: I see your point now. This makes sense. However, I think that just saying S3230 may be confusing for user, as it does not immediately scream this is rule id. I think saying "See rule S3230 for more details about this order" would be fine.

Author: I added "rule"

If none of the above places are a good fit for a data member,
ask yourself whether it belongs to this class.
Instead of a data member, it might be more appropriate to keep the value

> - in a delegate class,

Reviewer: What is a delegate class? This term does not link the bell for me.

Author: expanded

== Why is this an issue?

In a {cpp} class,
all member variables of a type with an explicit constructor

> or of non-trivial type with a default constructor will be automatically initialized.

Reviewer: When I read this sentence, I get a lot of question about what is trying to convey, for example:
* What is the trivial type? There are trivial operations, like cosntruyctor destructors, not trivial type
* What are explicit constructors (does it mean `explicit` keyword). Maybe it is written by user?
```
struct A {
   A() = default;
   int x;
   int y;  
};
```

The examples that are below helps a lot, and I think that maybe just dropping the sentence may be good idea. And starting from the `Trivial types` section, but also would remove Trivial there.

As more concrete suggestions:
* Add a small sentence, before why this is an issue, including a description that when the class type has a constructor, it is expected that it will initialize all members. This rule raises the issue if some members are left initialized.
* Start why this is an issue, with the example of no constructor.

Author: Rewritten as discussed over zoom

Reviewer: Looks a lot better now. Thanks!

ask yourself whether it belongs to this class.
Instead of a data member, it might be more appropriate to keep the value

> - in a member of the class of a dats member

Reviewer: Would this rewrite say the same say thing? If so I will found it cleaner.
```suggestion
- in the constructor of member type, if it is a class
```

Author: "keep value in the constructor of member type, if it is a class" does not make sense to me, as you can't "keep value in constructor"
But you can put the value into one of the fields of the class of a data member, that's what I meant.
I've rewritten it, see if that is understandable now
